about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: about
icon: <i class="fa fa-user"></i>
permalink: /about/
---

<!-- <img class="col one right" src="/img/prof_pic.jpg"> -->

<br/>
Presently pottering about reading, making music and generally enjoying dabbling with stuff I am not paid to do, whilst keeping the lights on with an engineering job in downtown San Francisco.

Eternally engaged in a duel between the self that builds things and enjoys crisp, logical lines of thought, and the slow, dreamy, nostalgic history buff forever dwelling in in the past.

<!-- 
<br/>
<hr/>
<br/>
<span class="contacticon center">
	<a href="mailto:you@example.com"><i class="fa fa-envelope-square"></i></a>
	<a href="https://github.com" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-github-square"></i></a>
	<a href="https://www.linkedin.com" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-linkedin-square"></i></a>
	<a href="http://tumblr.com" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-tumblr-square"></i></a>
	<a href="https://twitter.com" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-twitter-square"></i></a>
</span>

<div class="col three caption">
	You can even add a little note about which of these is the best way to reach you.
</div>

 -->

Commit message:

new posts, a helluva lot of CSS tweaking

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
icon: <i class="fa fa-user"></i>
permalink: /about/
---

<!-- <img class="col one right" src="/img/prof_pic.jpg"> -->
Presently pottering about reading, making music and generally enjoying dabbling with stuff I am not paid to do, whilst keeping the lights on with an engineering job in downtown San Francisco.

Eternally engaged in a duel between the self that builds things and enjoys crisp, logical lines of thought, and the slow, dreamy, nostalgic history buff forever dwelling in in the past.

<hr/>
<br/>
[<i class="fa fa-rss-square" aria-hidden="true"></i> My blogger blog](http://anotherbloggerbloke.blogspot.com) is where all posts dated before the summer of 2016 appeared originally.
<br/>
[<i class="fa fa-twitter-square"></i> @tuxerman](http://www.twitter.com/tuxerman) on twitter

<!-- 
<br/>
<hr/>
<br/>
<span class="contacticon center">
	<a href="mailto:you@example.com"><i class="fa fa-envelope-square"></i></a>
	<a href="https://github.com" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-github-square"></i></a>
	<a href="https://www.linkedin.com" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-linkedin-square"></i></a>
	<a href="http://tumblr.com" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-tumblr-square"></i></a>
	<a href="https://twitter.com" target="_blank"><i class="fa fa-twitter-square"></i></a>
</span>

<div class="col three caption">
	You can even add a little note about which of these is the best way to reach you.
</div>

 -->
